docs/api/start/intro.md, before:

---
title: Overview
slug: /api/start
---

These sections should provide you with all the information needed to install the `@polkadot/api` package, understand the structure of the interfaces and allow you to start using it. For existing users this really should be titled "Things I wish I knew before I started using the api" - it really aims to close the gap to allow anybody to get to grips with using the packages.

## What this is not

This is not line-by-line documentation of all the existing function calls available, nor it is tied to a specific chain. (Although the examples do refer to the base Polkadot & Substrate chains). There will be some things in the API that are probably not covered, which brings us to the next point...

## Help us help others

If you spot gaps in the information provided, or are uncertain about any specific area, please do [log an issue](https://github.com/polkadot-js/docs/issues) or if you are that way inclined, make a pull-request. We really want to have good documentation in these areas and allow people to be productive right from the start.

## Ready? Steady? Go!

If you already have a good grasp on the API and are just looking for a specific answer, you may want to take a look at the [Frequently Asked Questions](../FAQ.md). With all that said, let's get started... [What should be installed, and how should we do it?](install.md)

Commit message:

ES usage on getting started (first) (#41)

docs/api/start/intro.md, after:

---
title: Overview
slug: /api/start
---

These sections should provide you with all the information needed to install the `@polkadot/api` package, understand the structure of the interfaces and allow you to start using it. For existing users this really should be titled "Things I wish I knew before I started using the api" - it really aims to close the gap to allow anybody to get to grips with using the packages.

We are basing all our examples on the [ApiPromise](../examples/promise) version of the API, however there is also an RxJS version available. Since Promises are a part of the ES2015 specification, it covers the greater amount of use and is the one that will be used in 95% of the cases and should be familiar to 100% of all developers. However if you are in an environment where RxJs is recommended or your have a great affinity ot it, you could take a look at the [RxJS examples](../examples/rx) once you are familiar with the base concepts introduced here.

For now... just ignore the various flavors and focus on understanding the concepts.


## ES2015 Usage and examples

Before we jump into the guide, be aware that in all cases we are using ES2015, including using things like `async`/`await`, `import` and others. Depending on your environment, this may require some adjustments.

While we are using the `await` naked in all examples (this removes boilerplate and allows us to focus on the actual libraries), and unless your environment supports top-level await, it will need to be wrapped in an `async` block. So basically to make in run-able we sould wrap all samples inside a `async function main () { ... }` and then just call `main().then(() => console.log('completed'))`.

In the case of Node.js you would change the `import` into `require`, i.e.

```js
// Import
const { ApiPromise, WsProvider } = require('@polkadot/api');
...
```

While Node.js as of later versions supports the `import` syntax, we are only exporting CommonJS modules, hence the need for require.


## What this is not

This is not line-by-line documentation of all the existing function calls available, nor it is tied to a specific chain. (Although the examples do refer to the base Polkadot & Substrate chains). There will be some things in the API that are probably not covered, which brings us to the next point...


## Help us help others

If you spot gaps in the information provided, or are uncertain about any specific area, please do [log an issue](https://github.com/polkadot-js/docs/issues) or if you are that way inclined, make a pull-request. We really want to have good documentation in these areas and allow people to be productive right from the start.


## Ready? Steady? Go!

If you already have a good grasp on the API and are just looking for a specific answer, you may want to take a look at the [Frequently Asked Questions](../FAQ.md). With all that said, let's get started... [What should be installed, and how should we do it?](install.md)
